---
title: The $10 invention that changed my life
categories:
  - programming
description: Assistive Technology companies charge highway-robbery for their sub-par projects, but I found a clever solution to a make a High Quality CCTV on the Cheap
hidden: true
---

	Magnifiers are some of best tools for VI folks. There are several different designs suited for a veriety of uses, but one of the main challanges of designing a useful magnifier is positioning. It has to be both comfortable and simultaionsly out of the way enough to be useful. One solution to the problem of magnifiers is isntead to use cameras and a monitor to make a device called a CCTV. These are often desk-mounted or sometimes the size of a small tablet. They have a camera and several settings to zoom and adjust the image in ways that make it more accessible., Pictured below.
	Many VI folks use these devices for things like reading and writing and many other applications. While these devices are a great idea, the companies that produce them charge exhorbidant ammounts, often upwards of $500.
	
	I've felt that my poor eye-sight has kept me from doing many interesting things. One day at work, they were holding a "Lunch and Learn" Arduino workshop to offer everyone to learn about the little micro-controllers. While you might expect this to be something I'd find awesome, I actually really regretted going. The whole time, we were taught to work with little circuits and breadboards, which I found conceptually fascinating, but the whole thing was very inaccessible due to the tiny components. The whole time, I wanted nothing more than to run back toscuttle backt o my cubicle with my keyboard and code and give up electronics forever.

	I kept this nasty experience in the back of my head and it cropped up any tije I wanted to try anything electronics related. One day, however, I was messing with one of those zooming light-up makup mirrors. I was actually wanting to paint my nails for the first time, but once again, I encountered the same conumdrum of working with small, percise movements that wouldn't easily allow me to get in close. I could my phone or a magnifier, but just like with electronics, I need both hands for the process, leaving nothing for a device, and I couldn't get in super close because I needed both light and didn't want to get the paint on things.
	I frequently use my phone's camera for a whole manner of things unrelaated to photography. Often at resturaunts to read menus close up and far away. There was this neat app that would allow a computer to use the camera of the device as an external webcam. This gave me a great idea. I decided to set up the phone with this feature, and now I had the device's camera feed up on a big monitor with all the zooming and image manipulation power of Windows. This was great fun to play around with, but for it to be useful, I needed a way to secure it. I found a crappy old IKEA lamp with a flat bar at the top and fastened the phone with some velcro ties. And KABOOM! I had the working equivilant of a CCTV device with the flexibility of a full computer, customizability to my heart's content, and all on a shoestring budget.

	This little proto-type worked phenominally well despite some major flaws. I figured an actual, proper phone stand would be a bit more useful, however, and while searching Amazon one night, I discovered a device called a Goose Neck clamp. It had a phone attachment at the top, a snake-like, maliable metal tendral that could hold the device at any angle or position, and a sturdy C-Clamp that held it firmly to a work surface. This device was pefect for what I wanted to do.

	The app was free (though I eventually upgraded to the $3 premium version), and the stand was about $12. For anyone with a phone and computer, this is an absolutely unbeatable advancement, and a must-try for VI folks. With this, I can work on electronics, solder, paint my nails, ice cookies, build computers, and countless other things I would have been nervbous to attempt. Their high price and failure to innovate has kept other, more adaptable solutions out of the hands of underserved communites of VI folks, and just plain can't compete with this homebrew method. I am astonished I had not had this idea sooner.
